have you ever wondered about chillies
they're hot spicy and make you sweat
pretty much Scarlett Johansson in food
form so we brought you bet you didn't
know chili Edition I bet you didn't know
about the hottest chilli in the world
according to the Guinness Book of World
Records the boot Jolokia of Assam is the
world's hottest chili pepper with an
official Scoville rating of 1 million
1304 I'm getting heartburn just thinking
about it
but what are Scoville ratings Wilbur
Scoville developed a method for
measuring the strength of capsaicin
which is the active irritant in chilies
that causes that burning sensation his
method is known as the Scoville
organoleptic tetes
this meant tasting a diluted version of
a pepper and giving it a value mild bell
peppers rate at zero and the jalapeno is
mid-range at 3,500 scu so the booth
Jolokia is over 200 times as spicy as a
jalapeno did you know that the seeds are
actually not the hottest part of a chili
it's actually the white pit that
surrounds them which runs thick veins
through the pod I bet you didn't know
that chilies are the world's oldest
condiment that's right there's evidence
that chilies were being eaten in Central
and South America as long ago as 7,000
BC the tiny round chill tip in pepper
still grows wild around the region and
were used as one of the earliest tax
payments paid to aztec emperors which is
what i told the IRS when i mailed that
envelope full of chili powder to them
apparently paying your taxes is
terrorism and did you know that the
longest chili pepper string measured
1395 meters and was made by the citizens
of suncheon city south korea that's not
that surprising the Asians have always
had the longest things right and I bet
you didn't know that chilies are
actually really good for you chilies are
packed with vitamins containing more
vitamin C than oranges more vitamin A
than carrots and such high levels of
vitamin D that some athletes eat them
prior to exercising to reduce the risk
of injuries the active ingredient
capsaicin has also been known to reduce
the amount of insulin the body needs to
lower blood sugar levels after a meal by
up to 60% which could be a benefit to
diabetics and the overweight recent
tests on rats with prostate cancer
showed that large doses of capsaicin
caused the death of 80% of cancer cells
on an unrelated note I've been using
Chili's on my prostate for years if you
enjoyed these chili facts be sure to
subscribe - bet you didn't know and tell
your friends
you